computer in a local environment. (lan)
 
switch >> cable. 
access point  >> wireless technology.
rotuter >> is needed to connect to the internet.




lan 

if we want the computers in the same environment to communicate , we can use a switch devie.
the cable that we use to connect the computers to one another in a switch is called a CAT-5 or CAT-6 cable.  they are usually made up of copper. CAT > categoty
(firber optics can also be used to connect one computer to the another)
we always use cable to connect with switch. A switch cannot use wireless technology.
ACCESS POINT < you should use an access point if you want the device in the same environment to be connected to each other over wireless technology.

now a computer network is created where on system can communicate with another.  A local area network(LAN) is a computer network that connects computers within a restricted area such
as residence, school, laboratory, university, campus, or office building. 

the data which a compute sents to anothe can be called fram/packet, which will be sent to the switch then the switch analysis the packet and the forward the packet to the right destination.
a switch wich have many ports using this they we can connect many computers.

there is definitely no need for a router for device in the same LAN to communicate. Eiher a switch or an access point is sufficent for this purpose.





Router

a router device is need for computer/device to get connected to the internet. the main task of a router is to enable computer to connect to the internet. for that we need an ISP
(internet service provider). its a device that we use to communicatte with a computer in a different lan. connecting to internet can stand for connecting to the another computer in a anywhere in the world. 

the device that delivers the packet from the lan to the internet is the router. 

if a computer can send packet to the internet, this means that this computer can connect to the internet without any problem.
routers on the internet are distributed pretty widely.




Home Router.
a home-route is a combo device that is a mixture of router and switch. most home-router nowadays also have an access point feature. in this way, you can use wirelsess technology as well
if you want. 



Internet

the structure that connects all lans in the world is the internet.
